1.     How can you list all running processes on a Linux system?
      Use ps -aux for static, detailed process listings.
      Use htop for interactive, real-time process monitoring.
2.     What is the difference between grep and awk?
      Choose grep for fast, straightforward text searches.
      Choose awk for complex text processing and manipulation.
3.     How to change permissions of a file to 755 in Linux?
      Command Syntax:chmod 755 filename
      
4.     You need to find all files larger than 500MB under the /var/log directory. What command will you use?
       A)find /var/log -type f -size +500M
       Display Human-Readable Sizes:find /var/log -type f -size +500M -exec ls -lh {} +
5.     A specific service has stopped responding. How will you find its process ID and kill it safely without affecting other processes?
       Step1:
        Find processes related to the service by its name:ps aux | grep servicename
       Replace servicename with the name of the service or binary (e.g., nginx, apache2).
      Step2:
      Once you have the PID, use the kill command:kill PID

6.     How to identify the processes consuming the most CPU or memory?
      A)Real-time Monitoring: Use top or htop.
7.     How to check the free disk space on a Linux machine? If a particular partition (e.g., /var) is 95% full, what steps will you take to resolve it?
8.     You suspect a service failure occurred last night. How to search for all error messages in the logs from yesterday using a single command?
9.     A user reports they cannot execute a script named deploy.sh. What steps will you take to fix permissions so only the user and the group can execute it?
10.  Explain the output of ls -l and how file permission bits work.
11.  You are asked to schedule a script to run every day at 3:00 AM. How to set up a cron job for this task?
12.  You need to find all .log files modified in the last 7 days and archive them into a single .tar.gz file. What commands would you use?
13.  A developer accidentally deleted an important file. You don’t have a backup, but you suspect it is still open in a running process. How to recover the file?
